Showcase Script — Islombek Sultonov
Course: 32555 – Fundamentals of Software Development
Project: CLIUniApp & GUIUniApp (Python)

Slide 1 – Introduction
Good morning everyone.
My name is Islombek Sultonov, student ID 25506686, and this is my project CLIUniApp and GUIUniApp, developed in Python for the course Fundamentals of Software Development.
This project is a university application system that allows students and admins to manage data interactively.
Students can register, log in, enrol in up to four subjects, view grades, and change passwords.
Admins can view, group, partition, remove, or clear student data stored in a local file called students.data.

Slide 2 – Design Approach (MVC)
My project follows the Model–View–Controller structure:
Model: Handles data and logic — this includes the Student, Subject, and Database classes.
Controller: Contains all the menus and program logic that connect the models to the interface.
View: Displays the text-based CLI menus and Tkinter GUI windows.
This structure makes the code modular and easy to maintain or extend later.

Slide 3 – Input Validation using Regex
I implemented regular expressions to ensure data integrity.
For example, emails must end with @university.com, and passwords must start with an uppercase letter, include at least five letters, and end with three or more digits.
This is done using these patterns:
EMAIL_RE = re.compile(r'^[a-z]+(?:\.[a-z]+)*@university\.com$')
PASS_RE  = re.compile(r'^[A-Z][a-zA-Z]{4,}\d{3,}$')
This ensures all user credentials follow strict validation rules before saving to the file.

Slide 4 – File Handling and Persistence
The Database class uses Python’s pickle module to serialize and save all student data to students.data.
If the file doesn’t exist, it automatically creates one.
This ensures that even after the program closes, data remains available the next time it runs.
This approach is reliable, lightweight, and perfectly fits local applications like this project.

Slide 5 – Unique IDs and Enrolment Limit
Each student gets a unique six-digit ID, and each subject gets a three-digit ID.
The Student class includes a method that checks for duplicates before assigning an ID.
Also, a student can enrol in a maximum of four subjects, enforced by this code:
if len(self.subjects) >= 4:
    raise ValueError("Students can enrol in 4 subjects only")
This logic ensures fairness and follows the exact project requirements.

Slide 6 – Grading Logic
When a student enrols in a subject, a random mark between 25 and 100 is generated.
Then, the grade is calculated using this logic:
if mark >= 85: return 'HD'
elif mark >= 75: return 'D'
elif mark >= 65: return 'C'
elif mark >= 50: return 'P'
else: return 'F'
Admins can group or partition students based on these grades to easily view pass/fail performance.

Slide 7 – Error Handling
I added multiple validation checks to make the system user-friendly.
For example:
- If the student enters the wrong password, the system prints: “Passwords do not match – try again.”
- If a student tries to enrol in more than four subjects, it raises an exception with a clear message.
This prevents system crashes and guides the user toward the correct action.

Slide 8 – GUIUniApp (Tkinter)
In addition to the CLI, I developed a basic Tkinter GUI.
The GUI allows students to log in and manage their subjects visually.
It connects to the same backend students.data file used by the CLI version.
Pop-up windows show messages for incorrect credentials or when students try to exceed their enrolment limit.
This part demonstrates my understanding of GUI programming and event handling in Python.

Slide 9 – Reflection
I worked on this project individually, which helped me understand every part of the system in depth.
Although I will not demonstrate the CLI live today, the code is fully functional and aligns with all project requirements.
The most challenging part was making sure data persisted correctly and that all functions matched the sample I/O format.
Overall, I learned practical skills in regex validation, data serialization, modular programming, and GUI design.

Slide 10 – Thank You
To conclude, this project strengthened my understanding of Python and software design principles.
Thank you for listening — I’ll be happy to answer any questions.
